Prerequisites List

1.  General Prerequisites 
   - Jenkins Setup
   - AWS Account
   - GitHub Repositories
2.  Terraform Prerequisites 
   - Terraform Installed
   - AWS CLI Installed
   - SSH Key Pair
   - Terraform Configuration
3.  Ansible Prerequisites 
   - Ansible Installed
   - Ansible Configuration
   - SSH Access
4.  Jenkins Pipeline Prerequisites 
   - Credentials
   - Jenkinsfile Configuration

General Prerequisites
1.  Jenkins Setup :
   -  Jenkins Installed : Ensure Jenkins is installed and running on a server or your local machine.
   -  Required Plugins : Install the following plugins:
     - Git Plugin
     - Ansible Plugin
     - Terraform Plugin (optional, if you want more integration with Terraform)
     - Ansible Vault Plugin (if using encrypted variables)

2.  AWS Account :
   -  Active AWS Account : You need an active AWS account with permissions to create and manage EC2 instances.
   -  AWS Access Keys : Ensure AWS access keys are configured in Jenkins or available in the environment.

3.  GitHub Repositories :
   -  Repository Access : Ensure the repositories (`https://github.com/Deeptiitha23/jenkins.git`) are accessible.
   -  Repository Contents : The repositories should contain the necessary Terraform and Ansible configuration files.

Terraform Prerequisites
1.  Terraform Installed :
   -  Install Terraform : Terraform should be installed on the Jenkins agent where the pipeline will run. You can install it using the following commands:
      sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y terraform
 
2.  AWS CLI Installed :
   -  Install AWS CLI : AWS CLI should be installed and configured on the Jenkins agent. You can install it using:
      sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y awscli
     aws configure
      
3.  SSH Key Pair :
   -  Create SSH Key Pair : An SSH key pair (`test`) should be created and uploaded to AWS EC2. Update the key name in the Terraform configuration if necessary.

4.  Terraform Configuration :
   -  Verify Configuration : Ensure the Terraform configuration is correct and contains the necessary resources and providers.

 Ansible Prerequisites
1.  Ansible Installed :
   -  Install Ansible : Ansible should be installed on the Jenkins agent. You can install it using:
       sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y ansible
       
2.  Ansible Configuration :
   -  Verify Playbooks : Ensure that the Ansible playbook (`playbook.yml`) and inventory file are correctly configured.

3.  SSH Access :
   -  Configure SSH Access : The Jenkins agent should have SSH access to the EC2 instances being created, using the key pair mentioned in the Terraform configuration.

Jenkins Pipeline Prerequisites
1.  Credentials :
   -  Add Credentials : Add necessary credentials (e.g., AWS credentials, SSH keys) to Jenkins' credentials store.
2.  Jenkinsfile Configuration :
   -  Verify Jenkinsfile : Ensure the Jenkinsfile is correctly configured with the right paths and repository URLs.
