Prerequisites List

1.  General Prerequisites 
   - Jenkins Setup
   - AWS Account
   - GitHub Repositories
2.  Terraform Prerequisites 
   - Terraform Installed
   - AWS CLI Installed
   - SSH Key Pair
   - Terraform Configuration
3.  Ansible Prerequisites 
   - Ansible Installed
   - Ansible Configuration
   - SSH Access
4.  Jenkins Pipeline Prerequisites 
   - Credentials
   - Jenkinsfile Configuration

General Prerequisites
1.  Jenkins Setup :
   -  Jenkins Installed : Ensure Jenkins is installed and running on a server or your local machine.
   -  Required Plugins : Install the following plugins:
     - Git Plugin
     - Ansible Plugin
     - Terraform Plugin (optional, if you want more integration with Terraform)
     - Ansible Vault Plugin (if using encrypted variables)

2.  AWS Account :
   -  Active AWS Account : You need an active AWS account with permissions to create and manage EC2 instances.
   -  AWS Access Keys : Ensure AWS access keys are configured in Jenkins or available in the environment.

3.  GitHub Repositories :
   -  Repository Access : Ensure the repositories (`https://github.com/Deeptiitha23/jenkins.git`) are accessible.
   -  Repository Contents : The repositories should contain the necessary Terraform and Ansible configuration files.

Terraform Prerequisites
1.  Terraform Installed :
   -  Install Terraform : Terraform should be installed on the Jenkins agent where the pipeline will run. You can install it using the following commands:
      sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y terraform
 
2.  AWS CLI Installed :
   -  Install AWS CLI : AWS CLI should be installed and configured on the Jenkins agent. You can install it using:
      sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y awscli
     aws configure
      
3.  SSH Key Pair :
   -  Create SSH Key Pair : An SSH key pair (`test`) should be created and uploaded to AWS EC2. Update the key name in the Terraform configuration if necessary.

4.  Terraform Configuration :
   -  Verify Configuration : Ensure the Terraform configuration is correct and contains the necessary resources and providers.

 Ansible Prerequisites
1.  Ansible Installed :
   -  Install Ansible : Ansible should be installed on the Jenkins agent. You can install it using:
       sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y ansible
       
2.  Ansible Configuration :
   -  Verify Playbooks : Ensure that the Ansible playbook (`playbook.yml`) and inventory file are correctly configured.

3.  SSH Access :
   -  Configure SSH Access : The Jenkins agent should have SSH access to the EC2 instances being created, using the key pair mentioned in the Terraform configuration.

Jenkins Pipeline Prerequisites
1.  Credentials :
   -  Add Credentials : Add necessary credentials (e.g., AWS credentials, SSH keys) to Jenkins' credentials store.
2.  Jenkinsfile Configuration :
   -  Verify Jenkinsfile : Ensure the Jenkinsfile is correctly configured with the right paths and repository URLs.












Technologies/Tools Used

AWS (Amazon Web Services)
Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a comprehensive and widely adopted cloud platform that provides over 200 fully featured services from data centers globally. AWS offers a range of services, including compute power, storage options, and networking capabilities, along with tools for machine learning, analytics, and Internet of Things (IoT). AWS services are categorized into various levels of abstraction including infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). AWS's scalable and reliable infrastructure is used by millions of customers, from startups to large enterprises and government agencies.

EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) Instances
Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. EC2 is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers by allowing them to rent virtual servers, known as instances, on which they can run their applications. EC2 instances can be configured with different operating systems, CPU, memory, storage, and networking capabilities to suit various workloads. The flexibility of EC2 enables users to scale their instances up or down based on demand, making it an ideal choice for applications with varying workloads, including high-performance computing, large-scale batch processing, and highly available web applications.

Terraform
Terraform is an open-source infrastructure as code (IaC) software tool created by HashiCorp. It allows users to define and provision data center infrastructure using a high-level configuration language called HCL (HashiCorp Configuration Language). Terraform supports a wide range of service providers, including AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, and many others, enabling the management of both cloud and on-premises resources. Users can define infrastructure in a declarative configuration file, which Terraform uses to create an execution plan, detailing the steps required to reach the desired state. This approach ensures consistency, reduces human error, and allows infrastructure to be versioned and treated as code, facilitating collaboration and automation in managing IT environments.

Ansible
Ansible is an open-source automation tool used for configuration management, application deployment, and task automation. Developed by Red Hat, Ansible uses a simple, human-readable language called YAML (Yet Another Markup Language) to define automation tasks in files known as playbooks. Ansible is agentless, meaning it does not require any special software to be installed on the managed nodes. Instead, it uses standard SSH for communication, making it easy to set up and use. Ansible’s simplicity and powerful capabilities make it ideal for managing complex IT environments, streamlining repetitive tasks, and ensuring consistency in deployments across different environments.

Kubernetes
Kubernetes, often abbreviated as K8s, is an open-source container orchestration platform developed by Google and now maintained by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF). Kubernetes automates the deployment, scaling, and operation of containerized applications, providing a robust framework to manage distributed systems. It offers features like service discovery, load balancing, storage orchestration, automated rollouts and rollbacks, and self-healing mechanisms. Kubernetes abstracts the underlying infrastructure, allowing developers to deploy applications consistently across different environments, from on-premises data centers to public clouds. Its capabilities have made Kubernetes a cornerstone technology in modern cloud-native architecture, enabling the efficient and resilient running of microservices.

Jenkins
Jenkins is an open-source automation server used to automate various parts of the software development process, including building, testing, and deploying applications. Jenkins is a cornerstone of continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) practices, helping to streamline and accelerate the development lifecycle. It is highly extensible, with a vast ecosystem of plugins that support integration with numerous tools and services. Jenkins enables developers to automate repetitive tasks, ensure consistent builds, and deploy code changes more rapidly and reliably. Its flexibility and extensive plugin library make it a popular choice for DevOps teams aiming to implement robust CI/CD pipelines and improve overall productivity.

AWS CLI
The AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) is a unified tool that allows you to manage your AWS services directly from the command line. It provides a set of commands for interacting with AWS services and resources, enabling automation, scripting, and administration tasks. With the AWS CLI, you can perform various operations such as managing EC2 instances, S3 buckets, IAM users, and more, all from your terminal.
